#Programming II report

We choose the Philips Hue lamp as our product. The Hue lamp can be connected to various devices but the device itself doesn't have a screen. Focusing on how the device can make itself aware to us with sensory signals was interesting. We noticed quite early on that we didn't have that many opportunities for signaling awareness that needed to be programmed right away. In our case making the user aware of the lamp and its functions could be solved with different techniques in the initial part of the awareness. In our second user-testing we discussed whether to program the different signals to the user or use existing hardware and software to simulate it. For example, we could use already things like a flashlight on a phone or the screen of a phone and cover it with a slightly see through material. Playing a sound at the same time as the screen lights up or using the vibrate function in a similar way. The experience we put the user through would be very similar if we programmed these indicators. In this particular scenario, programming would only help us slightly and make the user-testing go a bit smoother and faster on our part of the experience but not change it for the actual user. This didn't feel necessary since we could test everything nonetheless and use this extra time more effectively.
However, further into user-testing we discovered that making the user aware that the lamp existed and understand that they could control the lamp was hard and needed a deeper understanding of the connection between the sound, vibration and light indications it showcased.  It needed a better way of telling that the lamp and the controller, in our case a phone, was a unique connection. We changed our focus from the lamp being noticeable to the connection being noticeable. Since patterns are easily recognized by people, we made the pattern for the sound, vibration and light the same. With this it became easier to recognize that the lamp wasn't just a lamp that could change colors it was controllable. Now it became significantly more relevant to develop this pattern since it wasn't achievable to simulate it with other methods. The experience overall was significantly clearer now with the sound and color pattern being the same. Vibration still played its part in this but sometimes it wasn't noticeable in the pocket.
